	
	In November, I felt an urge to put my programming capabilities to the test and start developing. As I delved into other people’s personal projects to look for inspiration and guidance, I felt overwhelmed with where to start. I would get discouraged by how advanced other people were, how many various platforms and languages they knew, and the amount of time many of my peers had already spent. It just felt like it was impossible to catch up - but everyone has to start somewhere. Instead of wallowing, I needed to create something that would encourage me to continue creating. I thought, “Everyone seems to have a personal site where they put their projects, which means that 1) I can create a site, and 2) it’ll look pretty dumb if there are no projects on it, so I’ll be forced to keep going.” 
	And here's the final product - welcome to my site! Here’s a little bit about it. I’m hosting the site on Github Pages and used Github’s static site builder, Jekyll, for the general HTML format. I chose Jekyll because it’s meant to be used specifically for blog-style websites. I copied over the default CSS theme, “minima”, into my local folders and made edits from there to personalize the design. I tried to mimic the iPhone theme a bit with rounded edges and a simple color scheme. 
	I’m using Google Analytics to keep track of site data by copying a site tag onto each HTML page. From my analytics dashboard, I can view page-by-page insights on how many people are viewing the site. 
	Pretty simple start, can’t wait to keep experimenting!
